[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The great monolith
mystery of 2020.
What is really going on?
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Here's what we know.
November 18, a
metallic monolith was
discovered in a remote
part of the Utah desert.
It was only found
because members
of the Utah Department
of Public Safety
were conducting an
aerial count of bighorn
sheep in a helicopter.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
The news quickly spread
around the world.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> No one knew who
put it there or why.
Theories abound.
>> Not sticking.
OK.
>> Was it an art installation?
An old movie set?
Aliens?
>> The intrepid explorers go
down to investigate the alien
life form.
Internet sleuths using Google
Maps were able to figure out it
appeared as early as 2016.
Then, 10 days after it was
discovered, it disappeared.
Soon it was revealed
local outdoorsmen
removed the monolith
as visitors were
causing environmental damage.
Meantime in Romania,
another monolith
similar in
construction was found
near an archaeological
site overlooking
the city of Piatra Neamt.
And almost as soon as it was
discovered, it disappeared.
What does it all mean?
Andrew Collins, science
and history writer
and author of "Gobekli
Tepe: Genesis Of The Gods"
had some theories.
>> What amazes me is that there
have been literally millions
of posts, comments,
news stories, et cetera,
et cetera on this.
I mean, to say it's gone
viral is an understatement.
So we have to look at it
more in terms of the impact.
I mean, we don't know why these
monuments were put up yet.
We honestly don't.
I mean, some guys could
come out of the woodwork
and say it's part of some
kind of advertising campaign,
or they just did it as
a joke, or whatever.
But the symbolism is very clear.
It's mimicking the
monoliths that appeared
in "2001, A Space Odyssey".
Here, the monoliths represented
the first alien contact
with humanity.
This is very subtle.
This is through
human consciousness.
Is it being done
on a psychic level?
But this is something that
is coming up again and again
in all of these news stories.
Beyond that, I think
that there is also
a similarity between
the monoliths
and the concept of crop circles.
I know a lot of people
believe the crop
circles are from some kind
of otherworldly source.
But in my experience of having
lived in the very area where
many of these crop
circles were appearing,
in the area of
Wiltshire in England,
there are a number
of groups that
go around making
these crop formations.
And I knew them all.
Some I got on with,
some I didn't.
But all of them were
united in one thing,
and that's the
fact that they felt
that they were in some way
inspired to do what they did.
Crop circle makers
compare themselves
with the surrealist painters
of the 1940s, the 1950s, who
believed that they
could stand or sit
in front of a blank
canvas and just
allow the spirits to channel
through exactly what it
was that they created
on that canvas.
And you know, who's to say that
they weren't being inspired
by some otherworldly source?
And if we see the monoliths in
some way connected with this,
it is very possible that the
creators of the monoliths
placed them where they did
for a very good reason,
and that they were
inspired to do it.
They might deny
it, but of course
some of the crop circle makers
did exactly the same thing.
But I think that there's
a pattern building here.
This is part of a
much bigger picture.
>> If the people behind it
were inspired by something
otherworldly, what is
the bigger purpose?
>> Perhaps the winter solstice,
where we have this incredible
planetary alignment where
Jupiter and Saturn will be
so close that they will
virtually appear like one
beautiful, brilliant
star in the sky.
Many astrologers,
many new agers are
looking towards this as some
kind of second 2012 event.
And in fact, many
indigenous cultures
are also set to do
rituals at this time,
including the
aboriginals of Australia
who will be carrying out a
ceremony on Uluru, Ayers rock,
in Australia.
And the Maya of Mexico
and the Yucatan Peninsula,
in particular.
They also will be doing
rituals at this time.
It's almost like this
is a booster date.
>> How could these monoliths
be linked to that event?
>> It's part of almost like a
zeitgeist that's building up
towards something.
I can feel it.
Many other people around
me can feel it as well.
And I suspect we are
going to find probably
more of these monoliths.
Some of them are going
to look exactly the same.
Many of them are going to
appear just overnight in places.
Some will be related
to the original artists
and some will be inspired to
be created by new artists that
just want to get into the act.
You could call them
copycat, but I think
that something's building here.
And as I said, this
has a very similar feel
to when the crop circles
started appearing
in Britain in the early 1990s.
It has exactly
that same momentum.
>> As more monoliths and
anomalies begin to appear
around the world, remember,
this could be part of a bigger
message channelled from
another unknown dimension.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.